# Self-Organized Distributed System for Deploying Connected UAV Networks

## Overview
VESPA (Vehicle Exploration using Self-organized Parallel Algorithm) is a distributed algorithm designed for autonomous UAV networks. This system allows drones to detect and cover targets in unknown locations, ensuring network connectivity to a central base (sink) in real-time disaster management scenarios.

VESPA leverages only one-hop information to dynamically adjust drone positions and connectivity, maintaining coverage while reducing drone count. It is optimized for search and rescue, environmental monitoring, and temporary network deployment in areas with limited ground access.

## Key Features
- **Distributed Target Detection**: Drones autonomously identify and cover targets within their range.
- **Dynamic Connectivity**: Ensures a continuous multi-hop path from each discovered target to the sink.
- **Adaptive Coverage**: The algorithm self-organizes drones to maximize coverage and adapt to new target discoveries.
- **Benchmarked Performance**: Outperforms the SaS (Spread and Shrink) algorithm in drone efficiency and coverage, discovering targets with up to 55% fewer drones.

## Getting Started
To compile the simulation:
```bash
mkdir build && cd build && cmake .. && make
```

## Running VESPA Simulation with a Specific Number of Drones
To execute the VESPA simulation, run the following script. It will create the build directory (if not already created), compile the code, execute it, and generate visualizations using Python.
```bash
    ./run.sh n=<number_of_drones> a=<communication_radius>
```
- `n`: Number of drones.
- `a`: Communication range between drones and their neighbors. If a is not specified, it defaults to 20.

The script will generate images for each stage of the simulation in the animation_result directory.

### Setting Target Positions
Note: The targets are not shared among drones. Each drone will individually search for targets within its region after every movement.
In main.c, you can adjust the target positions as follows:

#### Using Predefined Targets

Note; the targets positions are not shared with the drones, each drone will search if the targets existes in its region after each movement 
here you can see predieined targets 

```bash
    const int targets_size = 8; // Number of targets
    Target targets[targets_size];
    // Coordinates of specific targets
    float predefinedTargets[8][2] = {{0, 85}, {0, -85}, {85, 0}, {-85, 0},
                                     {75, 75}, {75, -75}, {-75, 75}, {-75, -75}}; 
```

#### Using Random Targets 
You can define any number of targets 
```bash
    const int targets_size = 10; // Number of targets
    Target targets[targets_size];
    generate_targets(targets, targets_size, NULL); // For random target generation
```

# Benchmarks 

#### 1. **Determining the Number of Drones Needed for Fixed Pre-Defined Targets**
This benchmark will run multiple simulations to explore all possible configurations. To execute this separately:

```bash 
    run_benchmark.sh  pre_target 
```

#### 2. **Determining the Number of Drones Needed for Random Targets with Variable Quantities**

This benchmark tests configurations with random targets (e.g., 1-30 targets) across 100 configurations for each target length. Run with:
```bash  
    run_benchmark.sh  rand_targets
```
Note: These random targets are generated by SAS simulation and saved in file in SAS directory since they need to be shared between SAS and VESPA simulation for comparison. 

### 3. **Complete Benchmark Comparison with [SAS](https://hal.univ-reunion.fr/hal-01406492v1)**

This benchmark compares the performance of the VESPA and SAS algorithms for both the predefined and random target cases:

```bash 
    run_benchmark.sh  all
```
Important: To run this benchmark, you need to have the SageMath library installed, as it is required for generating SAS data.

## Citations
This project is based on following paper with modifications:

Yann Busnel, Christelle Caillouet, David Coudert. Self-organized Disaster Management System by
Distributed Deployment of Connected UAVs. ICT-DM 2019 - 6th International Conference on Infor-
mation and Communication Technologies for Disaster Management, Dec 2019, Paris, France. pp.1-8,
10.1109/ICT-DM47966.2019.9032964. hal-02349396
[link](https://inria.hal.science/hal-02349396/file/Spread_Shrink(4).pdf)
